---
layout: post
title: Git And GitHub
category: Books
---

07-15

pages 1 - 19 (Beginning of book before Chapter 1)

Today I began reading Mastery by Robert Greene. In the Introduction, Robert defines Mastery as our ability to focus for long periods of time on a very concentrated subject or task. He attributes our ancenstor's ability to develop this kind of brain over 6 million years as the most important survival skill. This skill is has given us the ability to solve problems, recognize patterns, and become the most dominant species on Earth. He explains that despite many claims, there are no shortcuts to Mastery, but there is a simple path that anybody is capable of pursuing. The reason why most people in today's society do not puruse this path is because they do not want to put in the work that is necessary to become a master or are too distracted by other people's ambitions or money to follow their Life's Task.

An excerpt I really liked from the introduction is the following:

"We live in a world that seems increasingly beyond our control. Our livelihoods are at the whim of globalized forces. The problems that we face- economic, environmental, and so on-cannot be solved by our individual actions. Our politiicains are distant and unresponsive to our desires. A natural response when people feel overwhelmed is to retreat into various forms of passivity. If we don't try too much in life, if we limit our circle of action, we can give ourselves the illusion of control. The less we attempt, the less chances of failure. If we can make it look like we are not really responsible for our fate, for what happens in life, then our apparent powerlessness is more palatable."

07-16

pages 20-46

Chapter 1 is titled Discover "Your Calling: The Life's Task". Each of us is born with a certain uniqueness. We are naturally drawn to some areas of interests and repelled by others. As a child, before we have developed the ability to be self concsious about how other people think we should live our lives, we often gravitate naturally towards our uniqueness.

When I think back to my own life, I can specifically recall a few areas of interest that I was drawn too as well as a few that I was repelled from.

I have always been strongly drawn to games. When I was four years old, my Mom would play a different game with me everyday just after she had put my little brother to bed for his nap and while my older brother was still at school. I remember always being excited and looking forward to this special time of day. I don't think it is anything special for kids to like playing games, but the kinds of games I was attracted to are where I think I may be finding my uniqueness. My favorite kind of games always involved developing some sort of strategy with incomplete information. I remember loving to play memory games, where there would be about 32 cards face down, and on each turn you would get to flip two cards face up trying to make a match. I got very good remembering which cards I had already seen and began making matches very quickly. In a school system that values rote memorization, I believe these kinds of games gave me an advantage in my first couple of years in school which developed an inner belief that I was a gifted child and propelled a desire to earn good grades. I was the first person I knew to play fantasy sports. I heard about this game on TV or through a sports magazine (I used to read several) so I went on the internet and I found a website that would allow me to play for free. Sandbox.com was the first site I ever played fantasy sports. I was instantly hooked at the process of live drafting your team. I would study strategy guides and make notecards about each of the players and have expert rankings on when each player should go. I remember doing the draft and being appaled by how the results would be nothing like what was "suppose to happen". Later, I became deeply intersted in online poker in much of the same way. I figured out you could play online, and started exploring the different sites. I began teaching myself how to play with the playmoney tournaments. It was always more about the game then the money for me, which is why I think I struggled at times when I decided to try and make money from poker. I didn't like how the pain of losing would detract from the joy of the game and alter my strategies because I was no longer trying to win as much as I was trying not to lose. I am not sure what any of this means. I just know that I have been uniquely attracted to games of strategy and incomplete informtion ever since I can remember. Does that have anything to do with my Life's Task? How can I relate the skills I learned reading the many books on strategies, understanding that projections are always bullshit (no one can predict the future) learning about bank roll management, understanding the importance of cultivating your own style because if you do exactly what the "experts" or strategies tell you to do then you will become beatable plus you will not fully understand why you are doing some the things you are doing.

I have also always been drawn to public speaking. When I was in elementary school at a young age I would often want to get cast as the lead in our little school plays. When we had to give our first public speaking presentation in the 4th grade I was by far the best in the class. I wanted to be the person giving the speech at graduation (in middle school and elementary school I succeeded). I like being in charge, having the spot light on me, and I enjoy public speaking now as a teacher. Once again, I am not sure what any of this has to do with my Life's Task, but it is food for thought.

One other thing I want to mention is that I remember as a young child being fascinated by magnets. In kindegarten class on a few special occassions the teacher would pass out magnets during play time for us. I would go around the room trying to stick them to everything and being fascinated by when they would stick and when they wouldnt. I would love holding to opposite ends to each other and feel them push away. I wanted to know how all of it worked. I am sad now that I never pursued this passion more. I didn't have the answers at the time and I either did not articulate my questions well enough or could not find anyone that could really explain what was going on. I think the science behind it would have intrigued me and maybe caused me to pursue a career in physics rather than mathematics when I got to college.

I like the fact that I was naturally good at school work because it instilled in me this belief that I am special. That I am someone that is destined to do special things. However, I think it has hurt me in a lot of ways as well. My fear of failure stems from things coming easy to me when I was young. It has been a disability because I have avoided subjects and activities that I did not seem naturally good at. I never developed an appreciation for the diligence and focus it takes to become great at something. This is why I have never been particularly great at anything. As soon as things get challenging I quit. I don't want to look dumb, or ask for help, or take the chance of making a mistake. I am not willing to unapologetically fail. This is something I need to work on. The only way to truly improve your skills is through deliberate practice. And reading about a topic and/or watching others is not nearly enough if I want to become a master. I need to put apply what I have recenlty read or observed as well as explore my own observations. Following a tutorial may allow me to build a functioning app, but if the only way I can build an application is through a paint by number system like that, then I will never be a master. I need to take it upon myself to explore freely without any type of guidance other than a final goal of what I am trying to build. The work required to get there needs to be figured out by me because figuring out how to do it, even if my solution is not optimal, will yield far more benefits than being told how someone else would do it.

Some excerpts that I really liked:

"Just as a well-filled day brings blessed sleep, so a well-employed life brings blessed death" --Leonardo Da Vinci page 25

"Finally, you ust see your career or vocational path more as a journey with twists and turns rather than a straight line. You begin by choosing a field, or position that roughly corresponds to your inclinations. This initial position offers you room to maneuver and important skills to learn. You don't want to start with something too lofty, too ambitious--you need to make a living and establish some confidence. Once on this path you discover certain side routes that attract you, while other aspects of this field leave you cold. You adjust and perhaps move to a related field, continuing to learn more about yourself, but always expanding off your skill base. Like Leonardo, you take what you do for others and make it your own." page 27

"The career world is like an ecological system: People occupy particular fields within which they must compete for resources and survival. The more people there are crowded into a space, the harder it becomes to thrive there. WOrking in such a field will tend to wear you out as you struggle to get attention, to pay the political games, to win scarce resources for yourself. You spend so much time at these games that you have little time left over for your true mastery. You are seduced into such fields because you see others there making a living, treading the familiar path. You are not aware of how difficult such a life can be." page 35

"The game you want to play is different: to instead fina a niche in the ecology that you can dominate. It is never a simple process to find such a niche. It requires patience and a particular strategy. In the beginning you choose a field that roughly corresponds to your interests (medicine, electrical engineering). From there you can go in one of two directions. The first is the Ramachandran path. From within your chosen field, you look for side paths that particularly attract you. When it is possible you make a move to this narrower field. You continue this process until you eventually hit upon a totally unoccupied niche, the narrower the better" page 35

"The second is the Matsuoka path. Once you have mastered your first field (robotics) you look for other subjects or skills that you can conquer (neuroscience), on your own time if necessary. You can now combine this added field of knowledge to the original one, perhaps, crating a new field or at least making novel connections between them" page 35

"In dealing with your career and its inevitable changes, you must think in the following way: You are not tied to a particular position; your loyalty is not to a career or a company. You are committed to your Life's Task, to giving it full expression. It is up to you to find it and guide it correctly. It is not up to the others to protect or help you. You are on your own. Change is inevitable, particularly in such a revolutionaly moment as ours. Since you are on your own, it is up to you to foresee the changes going on right now in your profession. You must adapt your Life's Task to these circumstances. You do not hold on to past ways of doing things, because that will ensure you will fall behind and suffer for it. You are flexible and always looking to adapt." page 40

"When you are faced with deficiencies instead of strengths and inclinations, this is the strategy you must assume: ignore your weaknesses and resist the temptation to be more like others. Instead like Temple Grandin, direct yourself toward the small things you are good at. Do not dream or make grand plans for the future, but instead concentrate on ecoming proficient at these simple immediate skills. This will bring you confidence and become a base from which you can expand to other pursuits. Proceeding in this way, step by step, you will hit upon your Life's Task." --page 45

"Do not envy those who seem to be naturally gifted; it is often a curse, as such types rarely learn the value of diligence and focus, and they pay for this later in life. This strategy applies as well to any setbacks and difficulties we may experience. In such moments, it is generally wise to stick to the few things we know and do well, and to reestablish our confidence." page 45

07-17 pages 47-92

Chapter 2 is titled Submit To Reality: The Ideal Apprenticeship.

I like the idea of apprenticeships. To me, they make more sense than college for a lot of different proffessions. Some of the most respected and highly trained proffessions such as becoming a doctor or pharmicist have an apprenticeship like program built into it (often called residencies). The only way to truly learn a skill is to practice doing it, so why apprenticeships not more common? Why is it that for entry level positions, young college graduates are often caught in the paradox that they are unqualified because of their lack of experience, but they cannot get this experience because everywhere they go they are told they are unqualified?

I have never had an internship, but I do not believe that they are even in the same league as an apprenticeship. Interns are essentially free labor. They are most often used for menial tasks that have little to nothing to do with the career they ultimately want to pursue and as a result, learn nothing important. This is in complete contrast to the Middle Ages apprenticeships in which materials were scarce so the apprentice did not have the luxury of practice runs, nor the time to be doing anything other than perfecting his craft.

Chapter 2 begins by outlineing the apprenticeship process in three steps. These steps are Deep Observation, Skill Acquisition, and Experimentation. I wonder what phase I am currently in? I think I am in the skill acquisition phase. I no longer am just content with observing programmers explain algorithms or build projects. In order for me to fully appreciate what they are teaching I need to get my hands on a computer and write some code myself. I need to be able to experiment with why things do and don't work and push boundaries. The professor did x to get the results we wanted, but what happens if you do y instea of x? Do you still get the results? Why or why not? If you do, then why is doing x a better solution? Is it even a better solution? Does it matter which solution you choose?

I believe this skill is called learning about trade offs. There is often no correct or obvious answer for any programming problem, and you have to make your decision based on what you care about most. Do you care about simplicity or speed? Is it space or time? What kind of other constraints do you have? I am having a hard time learning these skills without complicated projects to work on. As a result I have been relying on tutorials to learn new technologies and skills but there is only so much you can really learn from a tutorial because the steps are already outlined for you. You are not required to thoroughly think through what steps you should take and why, so you often don't. You find the tutorial you are looking for because the objective matches what you want to do, but the actual work in organizing a plan to get there has already been done for you and now all you have to do is follow along.

This brings me back to a point in chapter 1 that you should focus on the narrowest and most specific skill or group of skills that is necessary. What are those skills in programming? I know that it is not any particular language and/or framework. These technologies are constantly changing. Is it the ability to learn quickly then so that you can keep up with the newest fads? No this is too broad of a subject. What enables someone to learn new technologies quickly? I think we have to break down the process more, but we are on to something.

The book then discusses 8 strategies for the ideal apprenticeship. The 8 strategies are:
  1. Value Learning over money
  2. Keep expanding your horizons
  3. Revert to a feeling of inferiority
  4. Trust the process
  5. Move toward resistance and pain
  6. Apprentice yourself in failure
  7. Combine the "how" and the "what"
  8. Advance through trial in error

I won't go over each one but I will discuss my favorite strategies here and try to relate them to what I can do right now to become a master programmer.

With my large student loan payments every month, I am guilty of forgetting that I need to value learning over money in my first developers job. I wish I would have kept this in mind when I graduated. I probably would have had some type of full time internship making $15/hr like several of my classmates did in the Philadelphia area to build skills and gain experience. Regardless of what my next job is, I need to keep in mind the value of what I can learn and who I can learn from is far more important than the money. I only need enough money to survive.

A common mistake that programmers are known for is becoming strongly opioniated in the technology that they know and use. This will often lead to such pointless arguments such as which is better Python or Ruby? The reality is, that the better technology depends on the problem you need to solve. I need to keep in mind that all of the students that I have at one point in time tutored or taught are not inferior in skill level to me because I started my developer journey a few months before them. I should relish the fact that I have such great relationships with so many different people and to see it as an opportunity to learn from them.

I have a hard time trusting the process. This is a struggle that is evident in a lot of areas in my life. When I can't see immediate gains I am quick to pivot and start trying something else. I believe my fear is that I do not want to waste years of my life repeating the same mistake, but I often jump around so much that I never give myself a chance to fully develop the skills. I need to push past plateus, not by changing my strategy, but through persistence and grit.

I also need to keep moving toward resistance and pain. My tolerance for pain is unusual. I often make the mistake of sticking to doing things that are familiar to me because I become overwhelmed when facing a new technology that I have never seen before. I am not sure where to start and as a result fall victim to paralyis by analysis. However, once I finally get going and am in the midst of the pain and really going through it I often don't mind. I am not much of a complainer and I expereinced this when we were learning Meteor and Mongo for our final project at DBC. I was able to keep chugging along and develop the necessary understanding to complete the project, but if it wasn't for the fact that it was a group project and I had other people going through the same pain with me I probably wouldn't of started or would have quit within the first couple of hours. I need to move toward the things I am unfamiliar with like caching in Ruby or learning a JavaScript framework like Ember and trust the process that allowed me to learn Meteor and Rails will also work for these unfamiliar technologies.

I have been saying for months now that I want to work my way through Noah Gibbs book Rebuilding Rails. I always come up with reasons why I want to put this off. This book is essential in me understanding how Rails works. I want to walk through building my own framework so that I can understand how web frameworks in general work and I believe it will lead to a deeper understanding on how the interent in general works. I believe that I will be able to understand what Herkou does for me, what Amazon AWS is doing, how databases and the web framework interact, and it will not only allow me to understand Rails, but will give me a base to draw comparisons to when learning different languages.



Some excerpts that I really liked:

"After your formal education, you enter them ost critical phase in your life-a second, practicaly eduction known as The Apprenticeship. Every time you change careers or acquire new skills, you renenter this phase of life. The dangers are many. If you are not careful, you will succumb to insecurities, become embroiled in emotional issues and conflicts that will dominate your thouhgts; you will develop fears and learning disabilities that you will carry with you throughout your life. Before it is too late you must learn the lessons and follow the path established by the greatest Masters, past and present-a kind of ideal apprenticeship that transcednds all fields. In the process you will master the necessary skills, discipline your mind, and transform yourself into an independent thinker, prepared for the creative challenges on the way to mastery." page 47

"The apprenticeship, by its very nature, must be conducted by each indiidual on his or her own way. To follow precisely the lead of others or advice form a book is self-defeating. This is the phase in life in which we finnaly declare our independence and establish who we are." page 55

"The principle is simple and must be engraved deeply in your mind: the goal of an apprenticeship is not money, a good position, a title, or a diploma, but rather the transformation of your mind and character-the first transformation on the way to mastery. You enter a career as an outsider. You are naive and full of misconceptions about this new world. Your head is full of dreams and fantasies about the future. Your knowledge of the world is subjective, based on emotions, insecurities, and limited experience. Slowly, you will ground yourself in reality, in the objective world represented by the knowledge and skills that make people successufl in it. You will learn how to work with others and handle criticism. In the process you will transform yourself from someone who is impatient and scattered into someone who is disciplined and focused, with a mind that can handle complexity. In the end, you will master yourself and all of your weaknesses." page 55

"Darwin could have played it safe, collecting what was necessary, and spending more time on board studying instead of actively exploring. In that case, he would not have become an illustrious scientist, but just another collector. He constantly looked for challenges, pushing himself past his comfort zone. He used danger and difficulties as a way to measure his progress. You must adopt such a spirit and see your apprenticeship as a kind of journey in which you will transform yourself, rather than as a drab indoctrination into the work world." page 56

"Three essential stps in your apprenticeship, each one overlapping the other. These steps are: Deep Observation (The Passive Mode), Skills Acquisition (The Practice Mode), and Experimentation (The Active Mode)." page 56

"The greatest mistake you can make in the initial months of your apprencticeship is to imagine that you have to get attention, impress people, and prove yourself" page 56

"If you impress people in these first months, it should be because of the seriousness of your deisre to learn, not because you are trying to rise to the top before you are ready" page 57

"Understand: there are several critical reasons why you must follow this step. First, knowing your environemtn inside and out will help you in navigating it and avoiding costly mistakes. You are like a hunter: your knowledge of every detail of the forest and the ecosystem as a whole will give you many more options for survival and success. Second, the ability to observe any unfamiliar environment will become a critical lifelong skill. You will develop the habit of stilling your ego and looking outward instead of inward. You will see ina ny encounter what most people miss because they are thinking of themselves. You will cultivate a keen eye for human psychology and strengthen your ability to focus. Finally, you will become accustomed to observing first, basing your ideas and theories on what you have seen with your eyes, and then analyzing what you find. This will be a very important skill for the next, creative phase in life." page 58

"As much as possible you want to reduce these skills to something simple and essential-the core of what you need to get good at, skills that can be practiced" page 58

"tacit knowledge- a feeling for what you are doing that is hard to put into words but easy to demonstrate in action" page 59

"Once you take this far enough, you enter a cycle of accelerated returns in which the practice becomes easier andmore interesting, leading to the ability to practice for longer hours, which increases your skill level, which in turn makes practice even more interesting. Reaching this cycle is the goal you must set for yourself, and to get there you must understand some basic principles about skills themselves." page 60

"First, it is essential that you begin with one skill that you can master, and that serves as a foundation for acquiring others. You must avoid at all cost the idea that you can manage learning several skills at a time. You need to develop your powers of concentration, and understand that trying to multitask will be the death of the process" page 60

"Second, the initial stages of learning a skill invariably involve tedium. Yet rather than avoiding this inevitable tedium, you must accept and embrace it." page 60

"This process of hardwiring cannot occur if you are constantly distracted, moving from one task to another. In such a case, the neural pathways dedicated to this skill never get established; what you learn is too tenuous to remain rooted in the brain. It is better to dedicate two or three hours of intense focus to a skill than to spend eight hours of diffused concentration on it. You want to be as immediately present to what you are doing as possible." page 61

"Once an action becomes automatic, you now have the mental space to observe yourself as you practice. You must use this distance to take note of your weaknesses or flaws that need correction-to analyze yourself. It helps also to gain as much feedback as possible from others, to have standards against which you can measure your pgroress so that you are aware of how far you have to go. People who do not practice and learn new skills never gain a proper sense of proportion or self-criticism." page 61

"Concentrated practive over time cannot fail but produce results" page 62

"Most people wait too long to take this step, generally out of fear. It is always easier to learn the rules and stay within your comfort zone. Often you must force yourself to initiate such actions or experiments before you think you are ready. You are testing your character, moving past your fears, and developing a sense of detachment to your work--looking at it through the eyes of others. You are getting a taste for the next phase in which what you produce will be under constant scrutiny" page 63

"In taking anything apart in order to fix it, we learn problem-solving skills that have wider applications. Even if it is only as a side activity, you should find a way to work with your hands, or to learn more about the inner workings of the machines and pieces of technology around you." page 64

"It is a simple law of human psychology that your thoughts will tend to revolve around what you value most. If it is money, you will choose a place for your apprenticeship that offers the biggest paycheck. Inevitably, in such a place you will feel greater pressures to prove yourself worthy of such pay, often before you are really ready. You will be focused on yourself, your insecurities, the need to please and impress the right people, and not on acquiring skills. It will be too costly for you to make mistakes and learn from them, so you will develop a cautious, conservative approach...you must value learning above everything else. This will lead you to all of the right choices. You will opt for the situation that will give you the most opportunities to learn, particularly with hands-on work. You will choose a place that has people and mentors who can inspire and teach you. A job with mediocre pay has the added benefit of training you to get by with less--a valuable life skill." page 67

"You must never disdain an apprenticeship with no pay. In fact, it is often the height of wisdom to find the perfect mentor and offer your services as an asistant for free." page 67

"What prevents people from learning even something as difficult as Piraha, is not the subject itself--the human mind has limitless capabilities--but rather certain learning disabilities that tend to fester and grow in our minds as we get older." pg 74

"What separates Masters from others is often something surprisingly simple. Whenever we learn a skill, we frequently reach a point of frustration--what we are learning seems beyond our capabilities. Giving in to these feelings, we unconsciously quit on ourselves before we actually give up." page 77

"The only real impediment to this is yourslef and your emotions--boredom panic, frustration, insecurity. You cannot suppress such emotiions--they are normal to the process and are experienced by everyone including Masters. What you can do is have faith in the process. The boredom will go away once you enter the cycle. The panic disappears after repeated exposure. The frustration is a sign of progress--a signal that your mind is processing complexity and requires more practice. The nsecurities will transform into their opposites when you gain mastery. Trusting this will all happen, you will allow the natural learning process to move forward, and everything else will fall into place." pg 77

"By nature, we humans shrink from anything that seems possibly painful or overtly difficult...This is the path of amateurs. To attain mastery, you must adopt what we shall call Resistance Practice. The principle is simple--you go in the opposite direction of all of your natural tendencies when it comes to practice. First, you resist the temptation to be nice to yourself. You become your own worst critic; you see your work as if through the eyes of others. You recognize your weaknesses, precisely the elements you are not good at. Those are the aspects you give precedence to in your practice. You find a kind of perverse pleasure in moving past the pain this might bring. Second, you resist the lure of easing up on your focus. You train yourself to concentrate in practice with double the intensity, as if it were the real thing times two. In devising your own routines, you become as creative as possible. You invent exercises that work upon your weaknesses. You give yourself arbitrary deadlines to meet certain standards, constantly pushing yourself past perceived limits. In this way you develop your own standards for excellence, generally higher than those of others." page 80

"There are two kinds of failure. The first comes from never trying out your ideas because you are afraid, or because you are waiting for the perfect time. This kind of failure you can never learn from, and such timidity will destroy you. The second kind comes from a bold and venturesome spirit. If you fail in this way, the hit that you take to your reputation is greatly outweighed by what you learn. Repeated failure will toughen your spirit and show you with absolute clarity how things must be done. In fact, it is a curse to have everything go right on your first attempt. You will fail to question th eelement of luck, making you think that you have the golden touch. When you do inevitably fail, it will confuse and demoralize you past the point of learning." page 83

"It is the hacker approach to progamming that may offer the most promising model for this new age. The model goes like this: You want to learn as many skills as possible, following the direction that circumstances lead you to, but only if they are related to your deepest interests. Like a hacker, you value the process of self-discovery and making things that are of the highest quality. You avoid the trap of following one set career path. You are not sure where this will all lead, but you are taking full advantage of the openness of information, all of the knowledge about skills now at our disposal. You see what kind of work suits you and what you want to avoid at all cost. You move by trial and error. This is how you pass your twenties. You are the programmer of this woide-ranging apprenticeship, within the loose constraints of your personal interests." page 89

"In this new age, those who follow a rigid, singular path in their youth often find themselves in a career dead end in their forties, or overwhelmed with boredom. The wide-ranging apprenticeship of your twenties will yield the opposite expanding possibilities as you get older." page 90

"There are no shortcuts or ways to bypass the Apprenticeship Phase. It is the nature of the human brain to require such lengthy exposure to a field, which allows for complex skills to become deeply embedded and frees the mind up for real creative activity. The very desire to find shortcuts makes you eminently unsuited for any kind of mastery. There is no possible reversal to this process." page 90


07-25-2015

Chapter 3: Absorb the Master's Power: The Mentor Dynamic pg 93-

The worst thing about this chapter is that it took me a week to read bc i slacked off my commitment.

This chapter was mainly about the mindset you need to have to be a great mentee. The mentor mentoroee is a two way relationship. It is up to you to carefully choose the right mentor for you, and then once you have made your choice to bring an unprecedent desire to learn and an energy to absorb as much as you can from the mentor. If you do everything correctly, there will come a time where you will outgrow your mentor and need to break away and venture off into the world alone to become your own person. This can be a very challenging task and sometimes the mentor is not always gracious at letting you go but you need to be emotionally ready for this is the only way it can end for you.

I really enjoyed learning the story of Michael Faraday. I recognize his name from many physics and math text books when I was in college, and I always wondered how someone that so profoundly changed the way we understood the world, and without whom countless numbers of technologies and inventions that we take for granite every day wouldn't exist, became a brilliant scientist. Learning how often he was rejected at a young age from the top universities and programs he wanted because of his lack of connections gives me hope. I often feel that I do not know enough people or have the right kind of background to be entering the tech space. The secret to overcoming this, that Faraday excelled at, is a strong work ethic and insatiable curiosity to understand how everything worked. The detailed notes that Faraday would take when attending talks, and the amount of effort he put into turning these notes into his own books is what got him recognized. I would also argue that it was this process of him organizing his thoughts and figuring out ways to articulate what he had learned and teach others that led him to a deeper understanding of the material. I am fascinated by how the author makes it sound like Faraday always knew what he wanted his entire life. He knew what is Life's Task was from a very young age and set out to find the most brilliant scientist of his generation and secure an apprenticeship with him, even after being initially rejected. How can people be so sure about what they want in life and what they are destined to do? I feel myself constantly distracted and pulled in many directions and struggle with a real sense of focus.

There are 4 strategies that are outlined to deepen the mentor dynamic:

1. Choose the mentor according to your needs and inclinations
2. Gaze deep into the mentors mirror
3. Transfigure their ideas
4. Create a back and forth dynamic

If nothing else, this chapter convinced me that I need to do more to find a mentor. I have beleived in the power of mentorship for awhile now, but I haven't put much effort into actively seeking a mentor. This is a mistake and I need to fix it. I am new to web development, and the tech scene in general. I am smart, but I lack focus and direction. How do I find a mentor that meets my needs and inclinations when I am not sure what direction I am headed? This is something I need to figure out. I need to do a self audit. What are my strengths? What are my weaknesses? Where do I want to be in 5 years? 10 years?

Strengths:
  I am good at teaching. When I know a topic, and am interacting with someone who wants to learn, I do a good job of articulating what I know in a way for the other person to understand. I can focus on what parts they are having a hard time grasping and using metaphors and patience, be able to work with them until something clicks.

  I am a good problem solver. I know this sounds vague so I am going to use a couple of examples to illustrate. For a job application with Apartment Therapy, the extra credit was a riddle where you had to create a program to decrypt a message. I was able to solve this in a relatively short amount of time because my brain was excited by the challenge and motivated to decrypt the message. Example 2, when preparing for a job interview a friend asked me to help her find all of the 10 digit prime numbers. I was able to understand how to use the Ruby Prime Number library, and break the problem down into about 8 or 9 steps to find all of the 10 digit prime numbers, and to prove that a 10 digit prime number that uses each digit exactly once does not exist.

  I am good at forming my own opinion. I can hold multiple ideas in my head at the same time, even if these ideas contradict themselves and use them to form my own opinion on a given subject. This is particularly useful when it comes to creating new business ideas. An example is my idea for GitBNB, which is an AirBNB knock off that caters to the programming community, and in particular, bootcamp students.

  Weaknesses:
    Design and aesthetics. I struggle and visualizing beautiful ideas. When I am building websites I do not know what color schemes to use or how to divide the page into pleasing sections. Art has never been an interest of mine and it would take a lot of work to understand it well enough to become good at it.

    Laziness. I tend to waste a lot of time not doing anything. I beleive there are two main reasons this happens. One is I have such grand visions of what I want the final results of the project I am working on to be that I am indecisive on where to start. I think of many possible scenarios that would work well and then out of paralaysis of analysis never do any of them. Another reason is because I often lose faith in the system I initially thought would work and pivot to a different system or idea. This constant changing of interest and focus on a direct plan results in me spinning in circles. And the final reason is because of a deep seated fear of failure that intellecutally I know i shouldn't have, but I have not been able to confront it deep down in my subconscious and relinquish this fear.

    Lack of Focus. I have already touched on this a couple of times but I will mention it again. I understand why so many people are diagnosed with ADD today. Everything around us in life is meant to distract us. I open my laptop with the intention of working and am instantly side tracked by Facebook or games. If I stay on Facebook or play games like backgammon too long online my mind begins to go numb. If I combine doing this while listening to a podcast or trying to watch a tv show I think my mind tries to overload on consumption. Not only do I not absorb any of the information because too many things are happening at once, but I also become extremely foggy in th ehead. I can't keep a consistent thought for more than a couple of minutes. The act of focusing on anything, even if it is me just trying to do some breathing exercises and calm my mind is impossible. I am utterly worthless at this point.

    Where do I want to be in 5 years?

    It's sad for me to admit this, the first thing that comes to mind, and the only thing that is consistent with all of my visions in 5 years, is that I want to be debt free. My main focus is money. This is a problem as money is not rewarding, and should never be the main goal. But I hate being in debt. I hate having such a high overhead on my cost of living because it dictates what kind of jobs I can and can't take, and what kinds of risk I can and can't take. It is my fault. I borrowed money for school, but I need it to pay off now and get me back to even. Then I can prosper from the knowledge I gained and my investment will have been worth it. If I can clearly envision where I want to be in 5 years then I can select an area of focus, find a mentor, and the money will follow curing me of my debt. So where do I want to be? I hate to start out negative, because I believe a bad habit of mine is being able to tell you all of the things that I don't want but never being able to express what I do want. I feel like I get this from my father, but that doesn't really matter. What I don't want to be doing in 5 years is building websites. I am positive that being a free lance web developer is not the career I want to pursue because the process of meeting with new clients, drawing mock ups of what they want, and then building websites from scratch does not excite me. It seems mundane and repetitious despite the fact that each project is different and has its own challenges. I love teaching, but I do not want to become a master teacher. If I can supplement my income with teaching while having free time to work on my own projects or passions then great, but I do not want to be someone who regurgiates information without ever applying it for my entire life. I enjoy being in charge. I enjoy having a sense of responsibility and taking on a role of leadership. I think this is what I enjoy a lot about teaching. I am not always happy taking orders from other people or having to buy in to their systems or beliefs. I feel like I am not always in control in these scenarios. I am interested in learning more about cyber security. I am fascinated by how computers work, and how streams of data are transferred around the world almost instantly in 1's and 0's. I feel like cyber security could be a possible career path that suits my intellectual desire to solve puzzles. This is an area that is worth pursuing. I also want to pursue working with Big Data. I like trying to recognize patterns in numbers and data sets, and being creative and figuring out what it could mean. Plus when you are the person reading the data, when you are that close to it, then you are the first person to see trends and how the world is changing. There is a saying that I really like that goes "the future is already here, it's just not equally distributed". Being close to data will allow me to see what needs to be distributed and get ahead of the curve. I really enjoy public speaking and putting on presentations. I think I should pursue giving presentations in whatever field I choose to pursue full time. It is a skill that a lot of people do not have and I enjoy doing. I am aware that this is a lot of senseless ramblings but hopefully I will be able to make some sense of it later on and gain some clarity. In conclusion, I am still trying to figure out my 5 year plan.

    Some excerpts that I liked:

"Understand: all that should concern you in the early stages of your career is acquiring practical knowledge in the most efficient manner possible" page 103

"There is more to this than just time saved. When we learn something in a concentrated manner it has added value. We experience fewer distractions. What we learn is internalized more deeply because of the intensity of our focus and practice. Our own ideas and development flourish more naturally in this shortened time frame. Having an efficient apprenticeship, we can make the most of our youthful energy and our creative potential." page 103

"Before he had ever met him, Davy was aware of Faraday's work ethic and organizational skills. That alone made him a desirable assistant. Considering this, you may not want to go in search of mentors until you have acquired some elementary skills and discipline that you can rely upon to interest them." page 105

"The best mentors are often those who have wide knowledge and experience, and are not overly specialized in their field-- they can train you to think on a higher level, and to make connections between different forms of knowledge" page 106

"Although one mentor at a time is best, it is not always possible to find the perfect one. In such a case, an alternate strategy is to find several mentors in your immediate environment, each one filling strategic gaps in your knowledge and experience." page 107

"In any event, you will probably have several mentors in your life, like stepping-stones along the way to mastery At each phase of life you must find the appropriate teachers, getting what you want out of them, moving on, and feeling no shame for this. It is the path your own mentor probably took and it is the way of the world." page 108

"The choice of the right mentor is more important than you might imagine. Because so much of her future influence upon you can be deeper than you are consciously aware of, the wrong choice can have a net negative effect upon your journey to mastery. You could end up absorbing conventions and styles that don't fit you and that will confuse you later on. If she is too domineering, you could end up becoming a lifelong imitation of the mentor, instead of a master in your own right. People often err in this process when they choose someone who seems the most knowledgeable, has a charming personality, or has the most stature in the field--all superficial reasons. Do not simply choose the first possible mentor who crosses your path. Be prepared to put as much thought into it as possible." page 112

"The problem with all students, he said, is that they inevitably stop somewhere. They hear an idea and they hold on to it until it becomes dead; they want to flatter themselves that they know the truth. But true Zen never stops, never congeals into such truths. That is why everyone must constantly be pushed to the abyss, starting over and feeling their utter worthlessness as a student. Without suffering and doubts, the mind will come to rest on cliches and stay there, until the spirit dies as well. Not even enlightenment is enough. You must continually start over and challenge yourself." page 115

"It is never wise to purposefully do without the benefits of having a mentor in your life. You will waste valuable time in finding and shaping what you need to know. But sometimes you have no choice. There is simply no one around who can fill the role, and you are left to your own devices. In such a case, you must make a virtue of necessity. That was the path taken by perhaps the greatest historical figure ot ever attain mastery alone-- Thomas Alva Edison" (page 122)

























